
Go pointers, like C pointers, are values that, uh, point to other values. This is a tremendously important concept and shouldn’t be considered dangerous or something to get hung up on.

Here are several ways that Go improves over C pointers, and C++, for that matter.

1. There is no pointer arithmetic. You cannot write in Go
    
    var p *int
    p++
    
    That is, you cannot alter the address `p` points to unless you assign another address to it.
    
2. This means there is no pointer/array duality in Go. If you don’t know what I’m talking about, [read this book](http://www.amazon.com/C-Programming-Language-2nd-Edition/dp/0131103628). Even if you have no intention of programming in C or Go, it will enrich your life.
3. Once a value is assigned to a pointer, with the exception of `nil` which I’ll cover in the next point, Go guarantees that the thing being pointed to will continue to be valid for the lifetime of the pointer. So
    
    func f() *int { 
            i := 1
            return &i
    }
    
    is totally safe to do in Go. The compiler will arrange for the memory location holding the value of `i` to be valid after `f()` returns.
    
4. Nil pointers. Yes, you can still have nil pointers and panics because of them, however in my experience the general level of hysteria generated by nil pointer errors, and the amount of defensive programming present in other languages like Java is not present in Go.
    
    I believe this is for ~~two~~ three reasons
    
    1. multiple return values, `nil` is not used as a sentinel for something went wrong. Obviously this leaves the question of programmers not checking their errors, but this is simply a matter of education.
    2. Strings are value types, not pointers, which is the, IMO, the number one cause of null pointer exceptions in languages like Java and C++.
        
        var s string // the zero value of s is "", not nil
        
    3. In fact, most of the built in data types, maps, slices, channels, and arrays, have a sensible default if they are left uninitialized. _Thanks to [Dustin Sallings](https://twitter.com/dlsspy) for pointing this out_.